There are two main libraries that are used in Python for building and training, and working with large
language models, and basically all deep learning models.
One is called PyTorch and the other one is called TensorFlow.
TensorFlow.
Like this.
Now in this course I'm only using PyTorch because, um, it's a little bit of an arbitrary choice,
but it is more widely used and it's a little bit easier to learn compared to TensorFlow in terms of
the syntax and so on.
Okay.
So to import the main PyTorch library you write import torch.
So it's called torch.
This will import the library into your Python workspace.
There are submodules in the torch library that are also often abbreviated.
So for example there's torch and that is often abbreviated as PN.
The N stands for Neural Networks.
This module contains a lot of classes and other properties that are often used when building models
from scratch.
So you will see this when we start building from scratch.
And then there is import torch dot functional.
And this is a module that contains a lot of individual functions that are used outside or separately
from classes.
And that one is often abbreviated just using the capital letter F.
Now in the next several videos I'm not going to be using these modules.
I'm just going to be introducing you to the main torch library.
So in fact, we don't actually need these for now.
But that's okay.
You see them anyway.
Okay, so the idea of PyTorch is to represent numbers as tensors.
What is a tensor.
So in linear algebra we have different terms for different sizes of collections of numbers.
So for example, if you just have one number we call this a scalar, a scalar like this.
So this is the linear algebra term for just an individual number floating about in the ether.
If you have a one dimensional list of numbers that can be like something like this.
So this is just one dimensional.
These are all in a row.
This is called a vector.
And vectors can be in rows like this.
Vectors can also be in columns like this.
This would be a column vector technically in Python.
If you wanted to make this a column, you need another set of brackets around each of these numbers
so that each of these is its own row.
So there are vectors.
And then we have matrices.
And a matrix is where you have multiple rows.
So I'm just making up random numbers here.
Let's just leave it at this.
So this is a matrix.
And in particular this is a two by three matrix.
I'll write that down two by three because there are two rows and each row has three columns.
So this would be considered a two by three matrix.
Now I'm cheating a little bit because the way I'm writing this down, it's actually a list not a matrix.
But I could do something like this.
I could make this be a numpy array.
And then this is I haven't imported numpy.
Let me see import numpy as np okay.
And now you see this looks like a matrix okay.
So we have a scalar.
We have a vector.
We have a matrix.
And then the idea of PyTorch is to represent everything using tensors a tensor is a three dimensional
cube of numbers or any higher dimension than two.
So uh.
Yeah.
A scalar is just a point.
A vector is a line.
A matrix is like a sheet of paper.
Like a spreadsheet, like an Excel spreadsheet where you have rows and columns.
Now, when you stack a bunch of spreadsheets on top of each other, you get a cube of data.
So that would be like a two by three by four matrix.
And now we're starting to talk about tensors.
Okay.
I will show you examples of tensors in a little bit.
But first I just want to, uh, introduce you to the data type in PyTorch.
It's called a tensor.
So v equals torch dot tensor.
And let's just start with the number one.
So here we see v.
It is a tensor that is the type.
And in this case it's uh like a zero dimensional tensor because it doesn't have any length breadth or
width.
It's just the scalar one okay.
And then I can make this 10.4 for something and it's still just a single element tensor.
Let's see the type of v.
So the type is a torch dot tensor.
Okay.
So now I want to try something else.
V equals torch dot tensor.
And now I'm going to write one.
So this is really similar to what I had up here.
Let me go back to this.
And then in fact I'm just going to copy and paste like this.
Okay.
Now these two code cells are really really similar to each other, but they're not identical.
And they are not identical because this one is contained in a bracket.
So this is a scalar.
And this is actually now a vector.
It is a one dimensional vector.
It has a one row and that contains the number one.
So these two are not exactly the same.
And we can do even more.
I can put in another bracket here.
And now actually let me start also.
So you see the type is tenser.
That's less interesting.
V dot shape.
And then I will also write again here V dot shape.
Okay.
So here the shape is empty because it's just a zero dimensional scalar.
Here the shape is one by one.
Let me go back to here.
So here the shape is one because this is a vector.
There's only one element in this vector but it's still a vector here.
Now I have A2A matrix.
It's a one by one matrix.
It only contains one element but it's one row and one column.
So internally PyTorch represents this as a matrix which we can also call a two dimensional tensor.
And you know we can go nuts with this.
So here we have a three dimensional tensor.
Now here you see the shape of this piece of information is actually a cube.
It has three dimensions.
It's still only one element in each dimension, but it is represented internally inside PyTorch as a
cube of numbers.
So a three dimensional tensor.
Let's do a little bit more with this.
How about let's create a variable w1 torch dot tensor.
And now I'm going to make a slightly bigger variable here.
So 123 and then 456 like this.
And actually I'll put this up here.
Okay.
So here I have let me print this out now.
So here we have a tensor.
This is a two dimensional tensor.
In linear algebra we would more frequently call this a matrix but a two by three matrix.
But in in the parlance of PyTorch we refer to this as a two dimensional tensor.
So it has two rows.
The first row is one, two, three and the second row is four, five, six, and it has three columns,
so one and then four.
That's the first column two and five and three and six.
So when we look at the shape of this variable, this tensor, we can see that it is indeed two by three
two rows and three columns.
Okay.
So what I'm going to do now is copy and paste this.
And I'm going to create a new variable called w2.
And w2 is going to be almost exactly the same as W1, except I'm adding another set of square brackets
here.
Okay.
So the rows are exactly the same.
The numbers are the same.
The number of numbers is exactly the same, but this one has an additional set of brackets around each
of these rows.
So now let's look at the shape of w2.
This is the shape of w1.
It is two by three.
It's what we already discovered.
Now the shape of W2 is one by two by three.
By the way, do not confuse this.
Maybe I'll change this just to make sure that this is very clear.
1012 and I don't know, minus three.
I don't want you to accidentally confuse these numbers with the numbers that were in the first row.
Completely, completely separate numbers.
This is the information that's stored in this tensor.
And this is the the number of elements along each dimension in the tensor.
So what we have here in W2 is a three dimensional tensor.
So it's a cube of numbers.
But the first element the first dimension only has one set of matrices which is this one here.
And to make that very clear what I'm going to do now is create another one.
So let's do 543.
And how about I don't know 946.
Okay, so the spacing is different.
Actually maybe I'll make the spacing the same.
Okay.
That will hopefully make it more clear.
So let's see if I lined up all of the brackets here.
Yes I have.
Okay.
So notice this gets really confusing.
But notice I have the rows all come in these individual brackets.
And then I have another level of organization that's grouping these two and and these two right.
Okay.
So I need another bracket here.
And then another closing bracket here.
Okay.
You can see this gets very confusing.
So now the size of this cube of numbers is two by two by three.
So this is the first element here.
This is the second element in the first dimension.
So the first dimension here contains these two two by three matrices.
So two rows and three columns inside each of these first two elements here.
So how can we index all of these rows and matrices inside this tensor.
So we can write let's see w1.
If I just index zero that's going to give me the first row.
Okay.
So this and also let me change this to nine just to make sure that's clear.
So now I am indexing the first row of this tensor.
And that's just the numbers 923 because that's the first row here.
Okay.
But then if I ask for the same index from W2 what is that going to return.
Well that's still going to return just the first like sub super row here from this first dimension.
And that actually contains a two by three matrix.
So that result is all of these numbers over here.
I hope that makes sense.
Think about it as a cube.
And we are slicing the cube in different orientations in different ways.